---
title: 32 Hartford
---

> W line of Hartford street, 166:3 S of Seventeenth, S 25 by W 102.

House history

## Schillings - April 1901- Nov 1904


Engine company.
Joseph and Catherine Schilling [buy the house from Fernando Nelson on 25 April 1901](https://cdnc.ucr.edu/?a=d&d=SFC19010425.2.66&srpos=1&e=-------en--20-SFC-1-byDA-txt-txIN-schilling+%22line+of+hartford%22-------), for $3500.

Joseph Schilling was the vice-president of the family business, "Adam Schilling & Sons"


## Donohues - Nov 1904 - ?? 1911

Mary A Donohue buys the house from the Schillings on 14th Nov 1904 for... $10. From [San Francisco Call, Volume 96, Number 170, 17 November 1904](https://cdnc.ucr.edu/?a=d&d=SFC19041117.2.138&srpos=5&e=-------en--20-SFC-1-byDA-txt-txIN-schilling+%22line+of+hartford%22-------)

The price was probably a tax dodge.

Something else weird happened here, and searching is foiled by bad OCR. Mary was the sole owner at the original sale, but on 24 Sept 1908 Charles is listed as the owner, passing the property back to Mary for $10. On 19 Oct 1909, Mary passes it back to him as "a gift".  Whaaaat.

## Duffys - 1912 - ??

I can't find any information about the sale. Backing up to census documents.

1920 the Duffys are listed as:
Patrick J Duffy - free owner of his home, 36 years old, a Saloonkeeper, born in California to Irish parents.
Mary A Duffy - 30, a housewife, born in California to an Irish father and Californian mother.
Plus four daughters: Mary (10y), Annie (8y), Loretta (6y) and Helen (2y).

The 1930 census they're still at 32, and it also lists a Patricia (8y), values the house at $5000, does not say if it has a radio set, and also lists both Mary and Patrick as having been born in Ireland. Huh. Also Patrick as having naturalized in 1902, and Mary in 1906, married when Patrick was 30 and Mary was 20. Patrick is listed as a 52 year old real estate agent, Mary and Annie are still single at home, but listed as stenographers for an insurance company and a stock & bond company respectively.

Mary passes away May 31 1939.

## Gilberts


Gardens
